

Here are some best practice tips for using CloudTrail:

If you are using AWS Organizations to manage your multi-account setup, create a trail to apply to the organization. T
his trail will be created in the master account and will log events from the master account and other member accounts. 
The trail will serve as a “master” log for all activities in your AWS setup.
  
Include all regions in your Trail. You may think you are creating AWS resources in only one region, but chances are, 
someone may create a resource in a different region. This is typically the case for PoCs or when people don’t pay attention.
If not careful, these resources could be running undetected, costing money.

Unless you are interested in finding out who is accessing or listing your resources, record only “write events” in the trail. 
This will show resource creation, modification and deletion events, and reduce log size.

People often create multiple trails. Too many logs can increase S3 storage costs over time and cause confusion.
Create one trail to capture everything unless there is a need to create separate trails.
Also, don’t create separate trails in each region, choose a “master region” and configure your trail to capture events from all regions. 
The reason to include all regions in your trail is to ensure it’s visible from every regions’ CloudTrail console. By default, a trail that does not include all regions is only visible in the region where it was created.

If you are searching for recent events (in the last 90 days), use event history instead of searching through S3 files.
This will improve the query time.

Don’t send CloudTrail logs to CloudWatch unless you are sure none of your event data will ever cross the 256 KB limit. 
This is even more important if you are using CloudWatch alarms for security and network-related API calls. If some events are dropped because of their sizes, you may miss important alerts.

Instead of manually searching through the logs, use industry-standard log management and SIEM tools like Sumo Logic. 
We will talk about how Sumo Logic can provide valuable insights from your CloudTrail logs in a future article.
