• Systems Manager – Provides a unified user interface for viewing operational data from multiple AWS services and automating operational tasks across your AWS resources.

• Systems Manager Inventory – Provides visibility into your Amazon EC2 and on-premises computing
environment. You can use Inventory to collect metadata from your managed instances.

• Systems Manager Patch Manager – Automates the process of patching managed instances with
security-related and other types of updates.

• Systems Manager Maintenance Windows – Let you define a schedule for performing potentially
disruptive actions on your instances, such as patching an operating system, updating drivers, or
installing software or patches.

• AWS Lambda – Lets you run code without provisioning or managing servers.

• Amazon QuickSight – Lets you easily create and publish interactive dashboards, including machine
learning (ML) Insights. You can access dashboards from any device and embed them into your
applications, portals, and websites.

• Tagging – Lets you assign metadata to your AWS resources in the form of tags. Each tag is a label consisting of a user-defined key and value. Tags can help you manage, identify, organize, search for,
and filter resources.


###Tags required---

Step 1:-
- patch Group:-
Tag represents the servers within application env that are the targets to specific patch baseline.

Note: A Patch group can be registered with only one patch baseline
And instance can be part of only one patch group.


>>Incase same application with different operating system.

Example:- hitrack-dev-redhat
 		  hitrack-dev-debian

-  maintaince window:- represents the schedule for patching the servers.
All servers in Patchgroup should have same Maintenance window. 

Maintaince window , you can specifu a timestamp in UTC format so that it can run all at spefic time.

Rate expression:-
cron(0 30 23 ? * TUE#3 *) ::-  third Tuesday of every month at 11:30 PM


Schedule offset
offset is the number of days to wait after the date and time specified by a CRON expression before running the maintenance window. 

if the scheudle offset is set to 2 the maintaince window wont run until 11:30 PM two day later.


Step2:-
System Manger Patch manager makes new patches available regularly OS specific.
For Each OS you can define the custom patch baselines that includes the approval rules.

Step3:-
Apply patches to Patchgroup for Maintaince window Tags.
After patching , application team verifies the servers
Issues:- Halt patching to other patch groups and other env by disabling the maintenance window or deregistering the patch task execution.
